tutorials/hobgoblin-acquisition.md, before:

# Acquisition and Control

The exercises below will help you become familiar with acquiring and recording data from the `Harp Hobgoblin` device, as well as issuing commands to connected peripheral devices using Bonsai.

### Exercise 1: Acquiring Analog Data

Connect a sensor such as a photodiode to one of the analog input channels on the `Harp Hobgoblin`.

(TODO: wiring diagram)

:::workflow
![Analog Acquisition](../workflows/hobgoblin-helloworld.bonsai)
:::

Within Bonsai: 

- Insert a [`Device`] operator. This operator is the first node you will add to your workflow when using any Harp device, and initializes a connection to the device. 

> [!NOTE]
> Notice how the [`Device`] operator automatically changes its name to `Hobgoblin` when added to the workflow. This is an example of a **polymorphic operator**, which changes its function and properties depending on what is being selected. To avoid confusion, in this tutorial, we will be referring to the original name of the operator that can be found in the Bonsai `Toolbox`, which might be different from how it appears in your workflow or in the workflow images shown.

- Insert a [`Parse`] operator, which allows you to specify which messages or events to listen to from the device. 
- Within the [`Parse`] operator, select the [`AnalogData`] from the `Register` property dropdown menu. 
- Right click on the [`Parse`] operator, select the [`Harp.Hobgoblin.AnalogDataPayload`], and choose `AnalogInput0` (or the `AnalogInput` that the photodiode is connected to) from the dropdown menu.

> [!TIP]
> `Registers` are simply message or event types (for instance, [`AnalogData`] or [`DigitalInputState`]). Within each `Register`, there could be different `Payloads`, which you can think of as different bundles of data with the same event type. In this context, the `Register` [`AnalogData`] is a collection of data coming from the analog inputs, with each [`Harp.Hobgoblin.AnalogDataPayload`] being a single analog input channel.

- Run the workflow, open the visualizer for `AnalogInput0`, and shine a light (for instance, from your phone camera) on the photodiode. What do you see?

<!--Reference Style Links -->
[`Device`]: xref:Harp.Hobgoblin.Device
[`Parse`]: xref:Harp.Hobgoblin.Parse
[`AnalogData`]: xref:Harp.Hobgoblin.AnalogData
[`DigitalInputState`]: xref:Harp.Hobgoblin.DigitalInputState
[`Harp.Hobgoblin.AnalogDataPayload`]: xref:Harp.Hobgoblin.AnalogDataPayload

Commit message:

Add 2nd exercise on acquiring timestamped data

tutorials/hobgoblin-acquisition.md, after:

# Acquisition and Control

The exercises below will help you become familiar with acquiring and recording data from the `Harp Hobgoblin` device, as well as issuing commands to connected peripheral devices using Bonsai.

### Exercise 1: Acquiring Analog Data

Connect a sensor such as a photodiode to one of the analog input channels on the `Harp Hobgoblin`.

(TODO: wiring diagram)

:::workflow
![Analog Acquisition](../workflows/hobgoblin-helloworld.bonsai)
:::

Within Bonsai: 

- Insert a [`Device`] operator. This operator is the first node you will add to your workflow when using any Harp device, and initializes a connection to the device. 

> [!NOTE]
> Notice how the [`Device`] operator automatically changes its name to `Hobgoblin` when added to the workflow. This is an example of a **polymorphic operator**, which changes its function and properties depending on what is being selected. To avoid confusion, in this tutorial, we will be referring to the original name of the operator that can be found in the Bonsai `Toolbox`, which might be different from how it appears in your workflow or in the workflow images shown.

- Insert a [`Parse`] operator, which allows you to specify which messages or events to listen to from the device. 
- Within the [`Parse`] operator, select the [`AnalogData`] from the `Register` property dropdown menu. 
- Right click on the [`Parse`] operator, select the [`Harp.Hobgoblin.AnalogDataPayload`] > `AnalogInput0` (or the `AnalogInput` that the photodiode is connected to) from the context menu.

> [!TIP]
> `Registers` are simply message or event types (for instance, [`AnalogData`] or [`DigitalInputState`]). Within each `Register`, there could be different `Payloads`, which you can think of as different bundles of data with the same event type. In this context, the `Register` [`AnalogData`] is a collection of data coming from the analog inputs, with each [`Harp.Hobgoblin.AnalogDataPayload`] being a single analog input channel.

- Run the workflow, open the visualizer for `AnalogInput0`, and shine the flashlight from your phone on the photodiode. **What do you see?**

### Exercise 2: Acquiring Timestamped Data

One of the main advantages of devices in the Harp ecosystem is that all messages and events are hardware-timestamped, rather than relying on software timestamping by the operating system, which can be imprecise and subject to jitter. To access hardware timestamped data, make the follow modications to the previous workflow.

:::workflow
![Acquiring Timestamped Data](../workflows/hobgoblin-timestamp-data.bonsai)
:::

- Delete the `AnalogInput0` node.
- Change the `Register` property in the [`Parse`] operator from [`AnalogData`] to [`TimestampedAnalogData`].
- Right click on the [`Parse`] operator, select `Bonsai.Harp.Timestamp<Harp.Hobgoblin.AnalogDataPayload>` > `Seconds` from the context menu.
- Right click on the [`Parse`] operator again, but this time select `Value (Harp.Hobgoblin.AnalogDataPayload)` > `AnalogInput0` from the context menu.
- Add a [`Zip`] operator and connect the `Seconds` and `AnalogInput0` nodes to it.
- Run the workflow and open the visualizers for the `Seconds`, `AnalogInput0` and [`Zip`] nodes. **What is each visualizer representing?**

<!--Reference Style Links -->
[`AnalogData`]: xref:Harp.Hobgoblin.AnalogData
[`Device`]: xref:Harp.Hobgoblin.Device
[`DigitalInputState`]: xref:Harp.Hobgoblin.DigitalInputState
[`Harp.Hobgoblin.AnalogDataPayload`]: xref:Harp.Hobgoblin.AnalogDataPayload
[`Parse`]: xref:Harp.Hobgoblin.Parse
[`TimestampedAnalogData`]: xref:Harp.Hobgoblin.TimestampedAnalogData
[`Zip`]: xref:Bonsai.Reactive.Zip
